RAILWAY.md, before:

# Railway Deployment Reference — WillCraft SA

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Railway Project                     │
│                  willcraft-sa                        │
│                                                      │
│  ┌──────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐                │
│  │   frontend    │   │   backend    │                │
│  │  nginx:alpine │──▶│ python:3.13  │                │
│  │  port: $PORT  │   │ port: $PORT  │                │
│  └──────────────┘   └──────┬───────┘                │
│                            │                         │
│                     ┌──────▼───────┐                │
│                     │   Postgres   │                │
│                     │  (managed)   │                │
│                     │  + volume    │                │
│                     └──────────────┘                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Service URLs

| Service  | Public URL                                              | Internal URL                    |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Frontend | https://frontend-production-dbe3.up.railway.app        | frontend.railway.internal       |
| Backend  | https://backend-production-2d9cb.up.railway.app        | backend.railway.internal        |
| Postgres | N/A (internal only)                                     | postgres.railway.internal:5432  |

## Project IDs

| Resource    | ID                                     |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Project     | `3e2d4b8f-8cde-4fef-9f0f-ed1e46d64a52` |
| Backend     | `b75497ae-1a3b-4287-a666-40dcee8f38b7` |
| Frontend    | `3e623683-a560-4535-bfa4-2b9404983248` |
| Environment | `1d47ffd0-cade-4bd3-aa96-85b682aaa98b` (production) |

## GitHub Auto-Deploy

Both services are connected to `yourdesigncoza/wdi` on the `main` branch.

| Service  | Root Directory | Trigger             |
|----------|---------------|----------------------|
| Backend  | `/backend`    | Push to main (backend/ changes) |
| Frontend | `/frontend`   | Push to main (frontend/ changes) |

Pushing to `main` triggers auto-deploy. No CLI commands needed for normal deploys.

## Manual CLI Deploy

For deploying local changes without pushing to GitHub:

```bash
# Deploy backend
railway up backend/ --path-as-root --service backend --detach

# Deploy frontend
railway up frontend/ --path-as-root --service frontend --detach

# Monitor status
railway service status --service backend
railway service status --service frontend

# View logs
railway service logs --service backend
railway service logs --service frontend

# Redeploy latest (without new upload)
railway service redeploy --service backend
railway service redeploy --service frontend
```

**Important:** Always run `railway up` from the repo root (`/opt/lampp/htdocs/wdi`). The `--path-as-root` flag tells Railway to treat the subdirectory as the build root, not the monorepo root.

## Environment Variables

### Backend

| Variable             | Source         | Description                                |
|---------------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `DATABASE_URL`      | Postgres ref   | `${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}` — auto-set    |
| `SECRET_KEY`        | Manual         | 64-char hex for JWT signing                |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY`    | Manual         | OpenAI API key for conversation AI         |
| `GEMINI_API_KEY`    | Manual         | Google Gemini key for verification layer   |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS`   | Manual         | CORS origins (comma-separated)             |
| `DEBUG`             | Manual         | `false` in production                      |
| `PAYFAST_SANDBOX`   | Manual         | `true` until production PayFast onboarding |
| `MAIL_SUPPRESS_SEND`| Manual         | `true` until SMTP configured               |

Railway auto-injects: `PORT`, `RAILWAY_*` variables.

The backend `config.py` uses `pydantic-settings` with env var loading. The `DATABASE_URL` validator auto-converts `postgresql://` to `postgresql+asyncpg://` for asyncpg compatibility.

### Frontend

| Variable       | Source  | Description                              |
|---------------|---------|------------------------------------------|
| `VITE_API_URL`| Manual  | Backend public URL (baked in at build time) |

`VITE_API_URL` is a **build-time** variable. It's passed as a Docker build ARG in the Dockerfile and embedded into the JS bundle by Vite. Changing it requires a rebuild.

## Dockerfiles

### Backend (`backend/Dockerfile`)

- Base: `python:3.13-slim`
- Installs WeasyPrint system deps (cairo, pango, gdk-pixbuf)
- Installs Python deps from `requirements.txt`
- Entry: `start.sh` (runs `alembic upgrade head` then `uvicorn`)

### Frontend (`frontend/Dockerfile`)

- Stage 1 (build): `node:22-alpine` — `npm ci` + `npm run build` (Vite)
- Stage 2 (serve): `nginx:alpine` — serves `/app/dist` with SPA fallback
- `nginx.conf` uses `$PORT` env substitution at runtime via `envsubst`

## Database

Railway-managed PostgreSQL with persistent volume (`postgres-volume`).

- Internal host: `postgres.railway.internal:5432`
- Database name: `railway`
- Migrations: Alembic, auto-run on backend deploy via `start.sh`

### Connecting Locally

```bash
# Open psql shell
railway connect Postgres

# Or get connection string
railway variable list --service backend --kv | grep DATABASE_URL
```

## Health Check

```bash
# Backend health
curl https://backend-production-2d9cb.up.railway.app/api/health
# Expected: {"status":"healthy","version":"0.1.0"}

# Frontend
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" https://frontend-production-dbe3.up.railway.app
# Expected: 200
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build fails with "Railpack could not determine how to build"

Railway's auto-detector (Railpack) sees the monorepo root instead of the service subdirectory. Ensure:
- Root Directory is set to `/backend` or `/frontend` in service Settings → Source
- When using CLI: always use `--path-as-root` flag

### Frontend TS build errors

TypeScript must compile cleanly (`npx tsc -b --noEmit`) before deploying. Railway runs `tsc -b && vite build` in the Dockerfile. Check locally first.

### Database connection fails

The backend expects `DATABASE_URL` in `postgresql://` or `postgresql+asyncpg://` format. The `config.py` validator auto-converts. Ensure the variable references `${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}` in Railway.

### CORS errors

Update `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` on the backend service to include the frontend URL. Comma-separated, no trailing slashes.

### VITE_API_URL not updating

`VITE_API_URL` is baked in at build time. After changing it, you must trigger a rebuild (redeploy or push).

## Cost Management

Railway bills per usage (CPU, memory, network, disk). To reduce costs:
- The backend sleeps after inactivity (default Railway behavior for Hobby plan)
- Frontend is static nginx — minimal resource usage
- Postgres volume persists across deploys

## Custom Domain (Future)

To add a custom domain (e.g., `app.willcraft.co.za`):

1. Railway dashboard → service → Settings → Networking → Custom Domain
2. Add your domain
3. Create CNAME record pointing to the Railway domain
4. Update `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` on backend to include the new domain
5. Update `VITE_API_URL` on frontend if backend domain changes (triggers rebuild)

Commit message:

docs: add VITE_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY to RAILWAY.md
Generated by John @ YourDesign.co.za

RAILWAY.md, after:

# Railway Deployment Reference — WillCraft SA

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  Railway Project                     │
│                  willcraft-sa                        │
│                                                      │
│  ┌──────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐                │
│  │   frontend    │   │   backend    │                │
│  │  nginx:alpine │──▶│ python:3.13  │                │
│  │  port: $PORT  │   │ port: $PORT  │                │
│  └──────────────┘   └──────┬───────┘                │
│                            │                         │
│                     ┌──────▼───────┐                │
│                     │   Postgres   │                │
│                     │  (managed)   │                │
│                     │  + volume    │                │
│                     └──────────────┘                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Service URLs

| Service  | Public URL                                              | Internal URL                    |
|----------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Frontend | https://frontend-production-dbe3.up.railway.app        | frontend.railway.internal       |
| Backend  | https://backend-production-2d9cb.up.railway.app        | backend.railway.internal        |
| Postgres | N/A (internal only)                                     | postgres.railway.internal:5432  |

## Project IDs

| Resource    | ID                                     |
|-------------|----------------------------------------|
| Project     | `3e2d4b8f-8cde-4fef-9f0f-ed1e46d64a52` |
| Backend     | `b75497ae-1a3b-4287-a666-40dcee8f38b7` |
| Frontend    | `3e623683-a560-4535-bfa4-2b9404983248` |
| Environment | `1d47ffd0-cade-4bd3-aa96-85b682aaa98b` (production) |

## GitHub Auto-Deploy

Both services are connected to `yourdesigncoza/wdi` on the `main` branch.

| Service  | Root Directory | Trigger             |
|----------|---------------|----------------------|
| Backend  | `/backend`    | Push to main (backend/ changes) |
| Frontend | `/frontend`   | Push to main (frontend/ changes) |

Pushing to `main` triggers auto-deploy. No CLI commands needed for normal deploys.

## Manual CLI Deploy

For deploying local changes without pushing to GitHub:

```bash
# Deploy backend
railway up backend/ --path-as-root --service backend --detach

# Deploy frontend
railway up frontend/ --path-as-root --service frontend --detach

# Monitor status
railway service status --service backend
railway service status --service frontend

# View logs
railway service logs --service backend
railway service logs --service frontend

# Redeploy latest (without new upload)
railway service redeploy --service backend
railway service redeploy --service frontend
```

**Important:** Always run `railway up` from the repo root (`/opt/lampp/htdocs/wdi`). The `--path-as-root` flag tells Railway to treat the subdirectory as the build root, not the monorepo root.

## Environment Variables

### Backend

| Variable             | Source         | Description                                |
|---------------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------|
| `DATABASE_URL`      | Postgres ref   | `${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}` — auto-set    |
| `SECRET_KEY`        | Manual         | 64-char hex for JWT signing                |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY`    | Manual         | OpenAI API key for conversation AI         |
| `GEMINI_API_KEY`    | Manual         | Google Gemini key for verification layer   |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS`   | Manual         | CORS origins (comma-separated)             |
| `DEBUG`             | Manual         | `false` in production                      |
| `PAYFAST_SANDBOX`   | Manual         | `true` until production PayFast onboarding |
| `MAIL_SUPPRESS_SEND`| Manual         | `true` until SMTP configured               |

Railway auto-injects: `PORT`, `RAILWAY_*` variables.

The backend `config.py` uses `pydantic-settings` with env var loading. The `DATABASE_URL` validator auto-converts `postgresql://` to `postgresql+asyncpg://` for asyncpg compatibility.

### Frontend

| Variable                       | Source  | Description                              |
|-------------------------------|---------|------------------------------------------|
| `VITE_API_URL`                | Manual  | Backend public URL (baked in at build time) |
| `VITE_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY`  | Manual  | Clerk authentication publishable key (baked in at build time) |

All `VITE_*` variables are **build-time** variables. They're passed as Docker build ARGs in the Dockerfile and embedded into the JS bundle by Vite. Changing any of them requires a rebuild. If you add a new `VITE_*` env var, you must also add a corresponding `ARG` + `ENV` line in `frontend/Dockerfile`.

## Dockerfiles

### Backend (`backend/Dockerfile`)

- Base: `python:3.13-slim`
- Installs WeasyPrint system deps (cairo, pango, gdk-pixbuf)
- Installs Python deps from `requirements.txt`
- Entry: `start.sh` (runs `alembic upgrade head` then `uvicorn`)

### Frontend (`frontend/Dockerfile`)

- Stage 1 (build): `node:22-alpine` — `npm ci` + `npm run build` (Vite)
- Stage 2 (serve): `nginx:alpine` — serves `/app/dist` with SPA fallback
- `nginx.conf` uses `$PORT` env substitution at runtime via `envsubst`

## Database

Railway-managed PostgreSQL with persistent volume (`postgres-volume`).

- Internal host: `postgres.railway.internal:5432`
- Database name: `railway`
- Migrations: Alembic, auto-run on backend deploy via `start.sh`

### Connecting Locally

```bash
# Open psql shell
railway connect Postgres

# Or get connection string
railway variable list --service backend --kv | grep DATABASE_URL
```

## Health Check

```bash
# Backend health
curl https://backend-production-2d9cb.up.railway.app/api/health
# Expected: {"status":"healthy","version":"0.1.0"}

# Frontend
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}" https://frontend-production-dbe3.up.railway.app
# Expected: 200
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build fails with "Railpack could not determine how to build"

Railway's auto-detector (Railpack) sees the monorepo root instead of the service subdirectory. Ensure:
- Root Directory is set to `/backend` or `/frontend` in service Settings → Source
- When using CLI: always use `--path-as-root` flag

### Frontend TS build errors

TypeScript must compile cleanly (`npx tsc -b --noEmit`) before deploying. Railway runs `tsc -b && vite build` in the Dockerfile. Check locally first.

### Database connection fails

The backend expects `DATABASE_URL` in `postgresql://` or `postgresql+asyncpg://` format. The `config.py` validator auto-converts. Ensure the variable references `${{Postgres.DATABASE_URL}}` in Railway.

### CORS errors

Update `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` on the backend service to include the frontend URL. Comma-separated, no trailing slashes.

### VITE_API_URL not updating

`VITE_API_URL` is baked in at build time. After changing it, you must trigger a rebuild (redeploy or push).

## Cost Management

Railway bills per usage (CPU, memory, network, disk). To reduce costs:
- The backend sleeps after inactivity (default Railway behavior for Hobby plan)
- Frontend is static nginx — minimal resource usage
- Postgres volume persists across deploys

## Custom Domain (Future)

To add a custom domain (e.g., `app.willcraft.co.za`):

1. Railway dashboard → service → Settings → Networking → Custom Domain
2. Add your domain
3. Create CNAME record pointing to the Railway domain
4. Update `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` on backend to include the new domain
5. Update `VITE_API_URL` on frontend if backend domain changes (triggers rebuild)
